
### General aspects of navigation and querying research data

- Please make it possible to avoid the technicalities of dealing with metadata in RDF form. Instead, the RDF metadata should be properly provided in a readable HTML format for the representation and modification purposes.
- Please provide a user-friendly web forms for specifying the most common (standard) search queries that will automatically invoke the corresponding SPARQL queries to the triplestore, whereby the results will be conveniently represented in a readable format.

## Questionnaire


- Please guide me through the process of the metadata generation for a particular research step in an intuitive self-explanatory way, without the need to deal with the technicalities of the RDF framework, which the overwhelming majority of users cannot consistently handle.

## Central Repository

- Please list all the data sets that have been generated in experiments between 2024-01-01 and 2024-03-31, and that have been created by the user with the username "user1".
- Please list all the data sets that have been generated in experiments between 2024-01-01 and 2024-03-31.
- Please list all the data sets that have been generated by members of the group “Local Group 1”.
- Please list all the devices available for the members of the group “Local Group 1”.

## Metadata-related


- Please provide the list of available resources for enrichment metadata corresponding to a given dataset (devices/ available rdf data/ lists of samples/ etc.).
- Please show all the introduced by user metadata on a web- page (readable format).
- Please give a user opportunity to correct the provided metadata (parameter values/ source selection/ etc.)
- Please list all the available metadata information for a selected dataset.
- Please describe the research workflow within which a given dataset was generated.
- Please provide a block-flow diagram for a given research step.

## Ontology-related


- How can the ontology be expanded to include additional attributes or relationships relevant to experimental data beyond the current concepts of "substance”? As example, including additional properties for a chemical compounds which can not be described in a regular way (using International Chemical Identifier).
- How does the ontology integrate with external ontologies or vocabularies commonly used in the domain of experimental data management?
- Please describe the relationships between the concepts "sample”,"substance" and mixture.
- What strategies are in place for managing version control and evolution of the ontology?
- Please provide an intuitive web interface for browsing ontology entities.
- Please provide an intuitive web interface for browsing the description of metadata fields specified within an ontology framework.
